we're about to get a tour of all the
biggest Escobar buildings by an ex-drug
dealer so what's happening that's what's
happening when we told our friends our
next trip was going to be the MIDI in
Colombia we were met with more warnings
than we expected but the confusing part
was that some people we know who
recently moved there described it as one
of the most fascinating and lively city
they had ever been to the contradicting
stories caught our curiosity and without
much of a plan we made it our next
destination but I don't think we
expected or about to see MIDI ian has
unfortunately gained a global reputation
of being violent and unstable mostly due
to the actions of one man Pablo Escobar
Escobar ran the midian cartel from 1976
and 93 and at the height of his career
supplied 80% of the cocaine smuggled
into the u.s. was eventually worth over
thirty billion dollars by the 1990s
making him the wealthiest criminal in
history unfortunately this made Colombia
one of the most dangerous places in the
world and the country fell into a civil
war between the narcos and the
government at the height of the conflict
Escobar actually decided to turn himself
in instead of being extradited to the US
he negotiated to stay in the country in
a prison he designed himself called la
catedral which basically became his own
luxury resort and don't you worry we're
about to take you there or at least
what's left of it to understand the city
when it's trying to accomplish today we
felt like we had to get a glimpse into
its history and study the men that
created the conflict in the first place
but beware hearing what this man has
done left us speechless so we found this
guy we're gonna hook up through a friend
who's actually an extra dealer but he's
an amazing guy he's got all these
stories about all this to our building
so we thought it'd be better than this
[Music]
Brina Lehman the missing the budget oh
good to meet you great to meet you I
trust anything we're going to see is
this prison we're gonna go to the
monocle building
the sanitarium where they do
they were massing close to the half of
million dollars come on half a billion
others in Libya
Pablo Escobar you can deal with
Rolex oh look at Romain Thanks they were
hair plan
so much
they brought him this guy they told to
me this is a present for you
I make all control box
and a car feel - the button and they say
when that bomb went off and that car
exploded that his face looked like a
little boy who was so excited so happy
he said that was the best present ever
in karma a lot of people love them cuz
they never saw
for the transformation
where that little rails at that's a
two-story penthouse that's where name
enough
and on all these other floors whole
families are the bodyguards who lived
there with them the bodyguards were here
all the time when the family by the wife
was never alone as they published
parking was a
that little rail that sticks out in the
middle over there kind of that's where
people get a 360-degree view of the
whole city
a escobar his name was on there with me
on right so when he drove by Poblado
avenue oh yeah
but there was nothing like this building
in this whole side of the mountains how
often would he come to this in this view
full time together like in the kids
guy's closest to a papaya being one says
you can look at probably on the isin you
want to see fear in his eyes very very
few people ever heard them say
personally so where are we going right
now to la la
I've no clue website so why did you pick
this spot with the prison this spot is
where he grew up enough
long way up long way down did he ever
leave the jail oh yeah whenever you want
he was here for four thirteen months one
of the agreements was he was gonna
traffic no more
of course he kept doing that alright
this is his private prison that he built
for himself pretty much like a mansion
that he just customized or whatever he
needed now like it's kind of a monastery
let's go walk inside and check out the
prison look you're gonna see right here
call him down down the ground see it
there's one over here you walk over here
there's another one here just right here
was the main part of the jail after they
killed Escobar people were brave enough
to come down from the bottom when he was
from with sledgehammers and they
practically knocked the whole jail down
okay looking for money baby stuff he
does great a lot of money this was a
five-star resort there was no bars in
this Jail none at all is where they had
their parties and let's take a peep
inside well yeah I was like the ballroom
in there they had casino games to they
say thanks Frank Sinatra came up here
one time with paper him
[Music]
do you think
please ain't you ever where'd like this
meander its this helipad right there Oh
what's this over here like a pleasant
place to be she guess that over here is
all what he's to kill the people they
would kill the people in here we kill
the people because on the other side
there's um the Geo inside did you huh
your killer
lonely shuffle up a piece of it I never
found nothing
they want to be somewhere where people
used to get chopped let me show you
something over here a lot of these
people knew that Pablo was gonna kill
they don't like them coming they're
sacrificing themselves for the whole
thing because Pablo kill you leave your
family alone okay you don't come every
boy like to be gathered up your name
again time it was not themselves
[Music]
kind of wandering off track a little bit
here let's see what else we got if I was
coming here or Matt was coming here to
visit Pablo Pablo be right here waiting
for where Pablo broke up when Pablo had
the contractors built this party told
him build it with plasters both with
motor cement parlor practicar here and
kick the door huh I mean the walk and
they took off terrible okay here yeah
this is the path
[Music]
so this is where Pawar escaped on the
night that you see it up but tender
two in the morning they jumped across
here jumped over that Ridge and right
behind that last little Ridge we see
there's where it goes down and right on
the top there there was more men money
more weapons and they kept going Pablo
had a cell phone with him he decides
he's gonna make a phone call while he's
up there ice on the helicopters start
coming around that picked up the phone
call pop I kept telling they're gonna
catch it with these phones and he told
them man
I need these phones to contact my
families if you're scared turn yourself
in and that's what proper I turned
himself in
and shortly after they killed in the
signal here he sees Pablo Escobar
looking out the window talking caused
the tag and he says dad we got him
because sooner he goes are you sure he
goes dad I made eye contact with him
it's him because where's everybody at
dad I'm alone he was Park around here
some parks here in this week-long public
I tell them that hang up the phone
they're gonna kill you no no I don't
keep running down he was writing down
the new propositions that Pablo Escobar
wanted to propose to the government to
turn himself back in but there was gonna
be no turning himself back in they
wanted him dead remember the guys
already parked her there surrounding the
area he told his son son hold on I hear
something
those are the last words he said on the
phone call but when he put the phone
down and he walked to the rail you seen
the cops coming him they Sharleen right
there cuz he was on the first floor
he managed to jump out that window land
on that roof there was cops over here
shooting at him he was shooting at them
but the guys as Ghana was two snipers I
were up here once shot him in the
shoulder and I shot him in the hip and
that's when he fell towards the middle
of the roof and that's when I say he got
the gun and killed himself they shown a
lot of scenes that the guy ran out doing
a boom shot him
I was in here Pablo Emilio Escobar de
birria his younger brother Luis December
25th 1977 he told Escobar I'm gonna be
with you to the end boss no matter what
happens I wanna be with you and that's
how I went down he was Republican last
day after a few days in Midian all we
had really noticed was the kind generous
and pride people of Colombia so hearing
the story of what this man once did was
such a shock
Colombians say God made our land so
beautiful it was unfair to the rest of
the world so to even the score god
populated the land with a race of evil
men
but Midian can happily say today that
things are changing see one Tuesday for
the house show and on Sunday for part
two of our trip to Colombia
[Music]